---
categories: BIV
---

### 19. Buyers. sellers and the market

#### A. Customers and clients

* People who buy 'everyday' services such as train travel or telephone services are called customers. You can also talk about the users or end-users of a product or service, who may not be the people who actually buy it. 
* For example, when a company buys computers for its staff to use, the staff are the end-users.People who buy products or services for their own use are consumers, especially when considered as members of large groups of people buying things in advanced economies.
  * advanced economies : 선진국

#### B. Buyers and sellers

* A person or organization that buys something is a buyer or purchaser. These words also describe someone in a company who is responsible for buying goods that the company uses or sells. 
* These people are also buying managers or purchasing managers. A person or organization that sells something is a seller. 
* In some contexts, for example selling property, they are referred to as the vendor. People selling things in the street are street vendors.
  * vendor (n. c.) : someone who sells things, especially on the street

#### C. The market

* The market, the free market and market economy describe an economic system where prices, jobs, wages, etc. are not controlled by the government, but depend on what people want to buy and how much they are willing to pay.

#### D. Word combinations with 'market'

* market(forces, pressures) : the way a market economy makes sellers produce what people want, at prices they are willing to pay
* market(place) : producers and buyers in a particular market economy, and the way they behave
* market(prices) : prices that people are willing to pay, rather than ones fixed by a government
* market(reforms) : changes a government makes to an economy, so that it becomes more like a market economy