---
categories: BIV
---

### 25. Promotion

#### A. Advertising

* Classified advertisements
* Open air hoardings / Billboards
* Neon signs
* Display advertisements
* TV commercial
* Special display
* The Internet is a new advertising medium.
  * medium
*  Product endorsements are when famous people recommend a product. 
  * endorsements
* A series of advertisements for a particular company or product is an advertising campaign 
* A person or business that advertises is an advertiser. An organization that designs and manages advertising campaigns is an advertising agency. 
* Sponsorship is where companies sponsor (pay some of the costs of) events like concerts and sports events. 

#### B. The sale force

* A company's salespeople (its salesmen and saleswomen) visit customers and persuade them to buy its products. Each member of this salesforce may be responsible for a particular region: his or her sales area or sales territory. 
  * territory

#### C. Promotinal activities

* Promotion (uncountable) is all the activities supporting the sale of a product, including advertising. A promotion (countable) describes
  * a special offer such as a discount or reduced price.
  * a free gift: given with the product.
  * a free sample: a small amount of the product to try or taste
  * competitions with prizes.
* Supermarkets and airlines give loyalty cards to customers: the more you spend, the more points you get, and you can exchange these points for free goods or flights.
* Cross-promotion is where you buy one product, and you are recommended to buy another product that may go with it.