---
categories: BIV
---

## 9. Managers, executives and directors

### A. Managers and executives:UK

* All the (           ) together are the (              ). They meet in the (.         ). 
  * directors
  * board
  * boardroom
* (.         ) are not managers of the company; they are outsiders, often directors of other companies who have particular knowledge of the industry or of particular areas.
  * No-executive directors
* The (.         ) is the head of marketing, the IT director is the head of IT, etc. These people head or head up their departments. Informally, the head of an activity, a department or an organization is its boss. 
  * marketing director

* An executive or, informally, an exec, is usually a manager at quite a high level (for example, a senior executive). But 'executive' can be used in other contexts to suggest luxury, as in 'executive coach' and 'executive home', even for things that are not actually used by executives.

### B. Managers and executives:US

* In the US, the top position may be that of chairman, chairwoman or president. 
  * chairman, chairwoman, president
* This job is often combined with the position of chief executive officer or CEO.
  * chief executive officer, CEO
* Some companies have a chief operating officer to take care of the day-to-day 
  running of the company. The finance director may be called the chief financial officer. 
  * finance director
  * chief financial officer
* In the US, senior managers in charge of particular areas are often called vice presidents (VPs)
  * vice presidents

### C. etc

* Meet with advertising agency to discuss new advertisements for the company's holidays.
  * marketing director
* Study possible new holiday destinations in detail. 
  * reserch director
* See the research director to discuss new holiday destinations.
  * managing director
* Contact newspapers to advertise new jobs. 
  * human resources director
* Deal with complaints from customers. 
  * customer services manager
* Discuss sales figures with sales team. 
  * sales manager