---
categories: BIV
---

### 22. Products and brands

#### A. Word combinations with 'product'

* product (catalogue, catalog, mix, portfolio) a company's products, as a group
* product (line, range) a company's products of a particular type
* product (lifecycle) the stages in the life of a product, and the number of people who buy it at each stage
* product (positioning) how a company would like a product to be seen in relation to its other products, or to competing products
* product (placement) when a company pays for its products to be seen in films and TV programmes 

#### B. Goods

* Goods can refer to the materials and components used to make products, or the products that are made.
* Here are some examples of these different types of goods:
* Consumer goods that last a long time, such as cars and washing machines, are consumer durables. Consumer goods such as food products that sell quickly are fast- moving consumer goods, or FMCG.

#### C. Brands and branding

* A brand is a name a company gives to its products so they can be easily recognized. This may be the name of the company itself: the make of the product. For products like cars, you refer to the make and model, the particular type of car, for example, the Ford (make) Ka (model).
* Brand awareness or brand recognition is how much people recognize a brand. The ideas people have about a brand is its brand image. 
* Many companies have a brand manager.Branding is creating brands and keeping them in customer's minds through advertising, packaging, etc. A brand should have a clear brand identity so that people think of it in a particular way in relation to other brands.
* A product with the retailer's own name on it is an own-brand product (BrE) or own- label product (AmE).
* Products that are not branded, those that do not have a brand name, are generic products or generics.