---
categories: BIV
---

### 17. Materials and suppliers

#### A. Inputs

* Dryden makes vacuum cleaners. It takes raw materials like steel and plastic and makes some of the components or parts used in its products. Other components are made by other companies.
  * vacuum (n. c.) : a space that is completely empty of all gas, especially one from which all the air has been taken away
  * component (n. c.) : one of several parts that together make up a whole machine, system etc **SYN** constituent
* Materials and parts are just some of the inputs. The others are labour (workers and managers) and capital (money). Knowledge is also important because Dryden is a leader in vacuum technology.
* Vacuum cleaners that are being made are work-in- progress. At any one time, Dryden has goods worth millions of dollars in its factories and warehouses: the products that have been made - its finished goods - and materials and components.
  * work-in- progress : to not be finished or perfect yet
* Quantities of raw materials, components, work-in-progress and finished goods in a particular place are stocks.
  * Quantity (n. c. uc.) : an amount of something that can be counted or measured **quantity of**
* Note: Goods is rarely used in the singular.

#### B. Suppliers and outsourcing

* Dryden receives materials and components from about 20 companies, its suppliers or partners.
* The company is doing more subcontracting: using outside suppliers to provide components and services. In other words, it is outsourcing more, using outside suppliers for goods or services that were previously supplied in-house: within the company.
  * subcontract (verb. tran.) : if a company subcontracts work, they pay other people to do part of their work for them

#### C. Just-in-time

* Of course, it costs money to keep components and goods in stock: stocks have to be financed (paid for), stored (perhaps in special buildings: warehouses) and handled (moved from one place toanother). So Dryden is asking its suppliers to provide components just-in- time, as and when they are needed.
* This is part of lean production or lean manufacturing, making things efficiently: doing things as quickly and cheaply as possible, without waste.
  * lean (bussiness. adj.) : using the most effective methods and the fewest employees possible