---
categories: BIV
---

### 21. Marketing and market orientation

#### A. Marketing

* Marketing is the process of planning, designing, pricing, promoting and distributing ideas, goods and services, in order to satisfy customer needs, so as to make a profit.
* Companies point out how the special characteristics or features of their products and services possess particular benefits that satisfy the needs of the people who buy them.
* Non-profit organizations have other, social, goals, such as persuading people not to smoke, or to give money to people in poor countries, but these organizations also use the techniques of marketing.
* In some places, even organizations such as government departments are starting to talk about, or at least think about their activities in terms of the marketing concept.

#### B. The four Ps

* product: deciding what to sell
* price: deciding what prices to charge
* place: deciding how it will be distributed and where people will buy it
* promotion: deciding how the product will be supported with advertising, special activities, etc.
* A fifth P which is sometimes addedis packaging: all the materials used to protect and present a product before it is sold.
* The four Ps are a useful summary of the marketing mix, the activities that you have to combine successfully in order to sell. 
* The next four units look at these activities in detail. To market a product is to make a plan based on this combination and put it into action. 
* A marketer or marketeer is someone who works in this area.(Marketer can also be used to describe an organization that sells particular goods or services.)

#### C. Market orientation

* Marketers often talk about market orientation: the fact that everything they do is designed to meet the needs of the market. They may describe themselves as market- driven, market-led or market-oriented.