---
categories: BIV
---

### Organizations 1

#### Business and businesses

* Business is the activity of producing, buying and selling goods and services. A business, company, firm or more formally, a concern, sells goods or services. Large companies considered together are referred to as big business.
  * concern
    * worry. n. uc. : a feeling of worry about something important
    * business.  n. c. : a business or company
    * be refer to 
* A company may be called an enterprise, especially to emphasize its risk-taking nature. Businesses vary in size, from the self-employed person working alone, through the small ormedium enterprise (SME) to the large multinational with activities in several countries.A large company, especially in the US, is a corporation
  * risk-taking n. uc  : when people do things that involve risks in order to achieve something 
* The adjective, corporate, is often used in these combinations
  * corporate culture
  * corporate headquarters : 본사
  * corporate image
  * corporate ladder
  * corporate logo
  * corporate profits

#### Commerce

* Commerce is used to refer to business
  * in relation to other fields: 'literature, politics and commerce'.
    * politic**s** : 복수에 주의
  * in relation to government departments that deal with business: the US department of Commerce.
  * in the names of organizations which help business: chambers of commerce
    * chambers of commerce : 상공회의소
    * chamber
      * <enclosed space> n. c. : an enclosed space, especially in your body or inside a machine
      * <room> n. c. : a room used for a special purpose, especially an unpleasant one
  * on the Internet: electronic commerce or e-commerce.
* The adjective commercial describes money-making business activities
  * commercial airline
  * commercial artist
  * commercial television 
  * commercial disaster : 예술적으로 성공했지만 상업적으로 돈을 벌지 못하는 것
  * commercial land

#### Enterprise

* In 1970s Britain, there were state-owned or government-owned companies in many differentindustries such as car manufacturing and air travel. 
  * state-owned 
  * government-owned
* Some industries had been nationalizedand were entirely state-owned, such as coal, electricity and telephone services. In the 1980s,the government believed that nationalized companies were bureaucratic and inefficient, and many of them were privatized and sold to investors.
  * coal n. uc. :  a hard black mineral which is dug out of the ground and burnt to produce heat 
  * bureaucratic adj : involving a lot of complicated official rules and processes
    * 관료제적인
  * privatize vb. : if a government privatizes an organization, industry, or service that it owns or controls, it sells it 
    * 민영화
* Enterprise is used in a positive way to talk about business, emphasizing the use of money to take risks.

#### Word combinations with 'enterprise'

* business activity owned by individuals, rather than the states
  * free / private + enterprise
* an atmosphere which encourages people to make money through their own activities and not rely on the government
  * enterprise + culture
* an economy where there is an enterprise culture
  * enterprise + economy
* part of a country where business is encouraged because there are fewer laws, lower taxes, etc.
  * enterpise + zone : 상업지구