---
categories: BIV
---

### 27. Sales and costs

#### A. Sales 1

* Sales describes what a business sells and the money it receives for it. Denise van Beek of Nordsee Marine is having a sales meeting with her sales team:
* 'Our sales figures and turnover (money received from sales) in the last year are good, with revenue (money from sales) of 14.5 million euros, on volume of 49 boats. 
* This is above our target of 13 million euros. We estimate our sales growth next year at ten per cent, as the world economy looks good and there is demand for our products, so my sales forecast is nearly 16 million euros for next year. I'm relying on you!'

#### B. Sales 2

* Here are some more uses of the word 'sale':
  * a make a sale: sell something
  * b be on sale: be available to buy
  * c unit sales: the number of things sold
  * d Sales: a company department
  * e A sale: a period when a shop is charging less than usual for goods 
  * f The sales: a period when a lot of shops are having a sale

#### C. Costs

* The money that a business spends are its costs:
  *  direct costs are directly related to providing the product (e.g. salaries).
  * fixed costs do not change when production goes up or down (e.g. rent, heating, etc.).
  * variable costs change when production goes up or down (e.g. materials).
  * cost of goods sold (COGS): the variable costs in making particular goods(e.g. materials and salaries).
  *  indirect costs, overhead costs or overheads are not directly related to production(e.g. adminstration).
* Some costs, especially indirect ones, are also called expenses.
* Costing is the activity of calculating costs. Amounts calculated for particular things are costings.

#### D. Margins and mark-ups

* Here are the calculations for one of Nordsee's boats:
  * selling price = 50,000 euros
  * direct production costs = 35,000 euros
  * selling price minus direct production costs = gross margin = 15,000 euros
  * total costs = 40,000 euros
  * selling price minus total costs = net margin, profit margin or mark-up = 10,000 euros
* The net margin or profit margin is usually given as a percentage of the selling price in this case 20 per cent.
* The mark-up is usually given as a percentage of the total costs, in this case 25 per cent.