---
categories: BIV
---

### 13. Manufacturing and services

#### A. industry

* Industry (uncountable) is the production of materials and goods. The related adjective is industrial. An industry (countable) is a particular type of business activity, not necessarily production.
  * industry n. uc : the large-scale production of goods or of substances such as coal and steel
  * industry n. **c** : businesses that produce a particular type of thing or provide a particular service

#### B. Manufacturing and services

* Here are some of the manufacturing industries that make up the manufacturing sector
  * make up (phrasal verb) : **make up something** to combine together to form something **SYN** constitute
  * aerspace : planes and space vehicles
  * cars(BrE), automobiles(AmE) : cars
  * computer hardware : computers, printers, etc.
  * counstruction : buildings
  * defence(BrE), defense(AmE) : arms, weapons
  * food processing : canned, frozen foods, etc.
  * household goods : washing machines, refrigerators, etc
  * pharmaceuticals : medicines
  * steel : a stronger, more useful metal than iron
  * texitle : cloth and clothes
* Here are some of the services or service industries that make up the service sector
  * catering : restaurants, bars, etc
  * computer software : programs for couputers
  * financial services : banking, insurance, etc
  * healthcare : medical care
  * leisure : sport, theme parks, etc.
  * media : books, newspapers, film, television
  * property(BrE), real estate(Ame) : buying, selling and managing buildings
  * retail : shop
  * telecommunications : phone, Internet services
  * tourism : travel and holidays
* Note: You use all these words in front of 'industry' to talk about particular industries, but you usually drop the 's' from 'cars', 'automobiles', 'pharmaceuticals' and 'textiles': 'the automobile industry'. 

#### C. Countries and theri industries

* Here is how industry has developed in South Korea
* In 1950, South Korea was a poor country, with most people living and working on the land. The government decided to industrialize, and the new emerging industries were textiles, and heavy industries like steel and shipbuilding.
  * emerging adj. : in an early state of development
  * industrialize veb : if a country or area industrializes or is industrialized, it develops a lot of industry for the first time
* Then South Korea turned more and more to light industries like electronics, making electrical goods such as televisions cheaply. It also started producing cars. 
* South Korea moved into specialized electronics in the 80s. This was the one of the growth industries of the 1990s: making specialized parts for computers and telecommunications equipment