---
categories: BIV
---

### 24. Place

#### A. Distribution : wholesalers, retailers and customers

* A wholesaler or shop selling a particular product, such as cars, is a dealer. A reseller sells computers. Wholesalers and retailers are distributors. Wholesalers are sometimes disapprovingly called middlemen.
  * disapproving (adj) : showing that you think someone or something is bad or wrong **OPP** approving

#### B. Shops

* A shop (BrE) or store (AmE) is where people buy things. Companies may call it a retail outlet or sales outlet. Here are some types of shop:
  * chain store: part of a group of shops, all with the same name.
  * convenience store: small shop in a residential area and open long hours.
  * deep discounter: a supermarket with very low prices.
  * department store: very large shop with a wide variety of goods, usually in a town centre.
  * drugstore: shop in a town centre in the US which sells medicines; you can also have coffee and meals there.
  * hypermarket: very large shop with a wide variety of goods, usually outside a town.
  * supermarket: very large shop, selling mainly food.
* In Britain, a shopping centre or shopping precinct is a purpose-built area or building in a town centre with a number of shops. Outside towns, there are shopping malls, where it is easy to park.
  * precinct (n. c.) : one of the areas that a town or city is divided into, so that elections or police work can be organized more easily
  * easy to park : 주차하기 쉬운
* Franchises are owned by the people that run them (franchisees), but they only sell the goods of one company. That company (the franchisor) provides goods, organizes advertising, and offers help and support. In return it takes a percentage of the profits of each franchisee. Many restaurants are also run like this.

#### C. Direct marketing

* Hi, I'm Beatrice and I work in a direct marketing company in Brussels. We organize mailings for many different products and services. 
* This is direct mail but people often call it junk mail. We target our mailing lists very carefully: for example, we don't send mailshots for garden tools to people who live in apartments
* We also do telemarketing, selling by telephone, including cold calls to people who have had no contact with us before. People are often rude to the workers in our call centres when they do this.
  *  cold call (verb) : to telephone or visit someone you have never met before and try to sell them something

#### Facebook plans office in China

* Facebook has secured a licence to set up an office in China in an apparent attempt to break into the lucrative market where its website is blocked
  * apparent (adj) : easy to notice **SYN** obvious
* The Facebook subsidiary has been registered in the southern China city of Hangzhou and financed with an investment of £30m, according to the details of the filing, which were seen by Reuters and the New York Times on China's National Enterprise Credit Information, before they were removed.
  * subsidiary (n.) : a company that is owned or controlled by another larger company
* This innovation lab is a far cry from Facebook being available to people in China, at least legally - it has been blocked since 2009.
  *  be a far cry from something : to be very different from something