---
categories: BIV
---

### 23. Price

#### A. Pricing

* Our goods are low-priced. Permanently low pricing means we charge low prices all the time
  * Permanently (adv) : always, or for a very long time
* You mean chep: your goods are poor quality. Our goods are high-priced, but we give customer service. And a lot of our goods are mid-priced: not cheap and not expensive.
* Your goods are expensive. Customers don't need service.
* You must be selling some goods at cost (what you pay for them) or at a loss (even less).  

* Yes. We have loss leaders - cheap items to attract customers in. But it's all below the 'official' list price or recommended retail price. We have a policy of discounting, selling at a discount to the list price.
* If he goes on undercutting us, we can't stay in business
  * undercut (verb) : to sell goods or a service at a lower price than another company **SYN** undersell

#### B. Word combinations with 'price'

* price boom : a good period for sellers, when prices are rising quickly
* price controls : government efforts to limit price increases
* price cut : a rduction in price
* price hike : an increase in price
* price war : when competing companies reduce in response to each other
* price leader : a company that is first to reduce or increase prices
* price tag : label attached to goods, showing the price; also means 'price'

#### C. Upmarket and downmarket

* Products, for example skis, exist in different models. Some are basic, some more sophisticated. The cheapest skis are low-end or bottom-end. The most expensive ones are high-end or top-end products, designed for experienced users (or people with a lot of money!). 
  * sophisticated (adj) : having a lot of experience of life, and good judgment about socially important things such as art, fashion etc
* The cheapest entry- level skis are for beginners who have never bought skis before. Those in between are mid-range. If you buy sophisticated skis to replace basic ones, you trade up and move upmarket.
*  If you buy cheaper skis after buying more expensive ones, you trade down and move downmarket. 
* Downmarket can show disapproval. If a publisher takes a newspaper downmarket, they make it more popular, but less cultural, to increase sales. 
  * disapproval (n. uc.) : an attitude that shows you think that someone or their behaviour, ideas etc are bad or not suitable

#### D. Mass markets and niches

* Mass market describes goods that sell in large quantities and the people who buy them. For example, family cars are a mass market product. 
* A niche or niche market is a small group of buyers with special needs, which may be profitable to sell to. For example, sports cars are a niche in the car industry.  