---
categories: BIV
---

### 15. Innovation and invention

#### A. Innovation and invention

* design (verb) : to make plans or drawings for how something is to be made
* design (n, uc.) : the art or process of making a drawing of something to show how you will make it or what it will look like
* a design (n, c.) : a drawing that shows how something will be made or what it will look like
* a designer (n.) : someone whose job is to make plans or patterns for clothes, furniture, equipment etc
* develop (verb) : to make a new idea successful, for example by making or improving a product
* development (n. uc.) : he process of gradually becoming bigger, better, stronger, or more advanced
* a development (n. c.) : the process of working on a new product, plan, idea etc to make it successful
* a developer (n.) : a person or company that makes money by buying land and then building houses, factories etc on it
* innovate (verb) : to think of new ideas, methods, products, etc
* innovation (n. uc.) :  the introduction of new ideas or methods
* an innovation (n. c.)  : a new idea, method, or invention
* an innovator (n.) : someone who introduces changes and new ideas
* invent (verb) : to design and make something for the first time
* invention (n. uc.) : the act of inventing something
* an invention (n. c.) : a useful machine, tool, instrument etc that has been invented
* an inventor (n.) : someone who has invented something, or whose job is to invent things
* technology (n. uc.) : the practical or industrial use of scientific discoveries
* a technology (n. c.) : new machines, equipment, and ways of doing things that are based on modern knowledge about science and computers
* a technologist (n.) : someone who has special knowledge of technology

#### B. Research and technology

* Hi, I'm Ray and I'm head of product development at Lightning Technologies. Lightning makes semiconductors, the components at the heart of every computer. I'm in charge of research and development (R&D) at our research centre just outside Boston. Our laboratories are some of the most innovative in the computer industry, and we have made many new discoveries and breakthroughs. 
  * semiconductor (n. c. ) : a substance, such as silicon, that allows some electric currents to pass through it, and is used in electronic equipment
  * breakthroughs (n. c.) : an important new discovery in something you are studying, especially one made after trying for a long time
*  I love technology, using scientific knowledge for practical purposes. The technology of semiconductors is fascinating. We are at the cutting edge or leading edge of semiconductor technology: none of our competitors has better products than us. Everything we do is state-of­the-art, using the most advanced techniques available. 
  * practical purposes
  * cutting edge  : an advantage over other people or things
  * leading edge : the part of an activity where the most modern and advanced equipment and methods are used
* Of course, the hi-tech products of today become the low-tech products of tomorrow. Products that are no longer up-to-date because they use old technology are obsolete. It's my job to make sure that Lightning's products never get into that situation. 
  * up-to-date (adj) : including all the latest information
  * obsolete (adj) : no longer useful, because something newer and better has been invented 

#### C. patents and intellectual property

* Information or knowledge that belongs to an individual or company is proprietary. A product developed using such information may be protected in law by patents so that others cannot copy its design. Other companies may pay to use the design under licence in their own products. These payments are royalties. 
  * patents (n. c. uc.) : a special document that gives you the right to make or sell a new invention or product that no one else is allowed to copy
  * loyal (adj) : always supporting your friends, principles, country etc
* In publishing, if a text, picture, etc. is copyright, it cannot be used by others without permission. Payments to the author from the publisher are royalties. The area of law relating to patents and copyright is intellectual property. 