---
categories: BIV
---

### The development process

#### A. Market research

* The original concept is the basic idea for something. In designing products and services, market research finding out what people want - is of course very important. This may involve questionnaires or surveys, with questions about what people buy and why, perhaps with interviews in the street or by telephone.
  * find out (phrasal verb) : to get information, after trying to discover it or by chance
  * questionnaire (n. c.) : a written set of questions which you give to a large number of people in order to collect information
* There may be consumer panels and focus groups, where ordinary people meet to discuss product ideas informally. Perhaps the researchers will make sales forecasts, estimates of how many products will be sold.
  * consumer panels : a group of people organized by a company or an organization doing MARKET RESEARCH to give their opinions about products : **FOCUS GROUP** (AmE)
  * ordinary (adj) : average, common, or usual, not different or special
  * estimate (n. c) : a calculation of the value, size, amount etc of something made using the information that you have, which may not be complete

#### B. Development and launch

* In software, developers often produce a final test version, the beta version, where users are asked to point out bugs (problems) before the software is finalized. Car designers use CADCAM (computer-assisted design / computer-assisted manufacturing) to help develop and make products and test different prototypes.
  * point out (pharasal verb) : to tell someone something that they did not already know or had not thought about
* Researchers in laboratories may take years to develop new drugs, testing or trialling them in trials to show not only that they are effective, but also that they are safe. 
  * laboratory (n. c.) : a special room or building in which a scientist does tests or prepares substances
* Drugs need to be made on an industrial scale before they can be sold. Rollout is the process of making a product available, perhaps in particular places, to test reaction.
  * industrial scale : 양산
  * rollout (n. c. uc) : when a new product or service is made available in a region or country after it has been successfully tested and marketed locally
* Product launch is the moment when the product is officially made available for sale. This is the 'big moment'. If a design defect or design fault is found in a product after it has been launched, the company may have to recall it, asking those who have bought it to return it, perhaps so that the defect can be corrected.