---
categories: BIV
---

### 20. Markets and competitors

#### A. Companies and markets

* You can talk about the people or organizations who buy particular goods or services as the market for them, as in the 'car market', 'the market for financial services', etc. Buyers and sellers of particular goods or services in a place, or those that might buy them, form a market.
* enters, penetrates (a market) : it starts selling there for the first time.
* abandons, gets out of, leaves (a market) : it stops selling there.
* dominates (a market) : it is the most important company selling there.
* corners, monopolizes (a market) : it is the only company selling there.
* drives another, company out of (a market) : it makes the other company leave the market, perhaps because it can no longer compete.

#### B. More word combinations with 'market'

* market growth : In the late 1990s, Internet use was doubling every 100 days. Market growth was incredible.
* market segment : Women are a particularly interesting target for the Volvo V70. They are an important market segment for Volvo.
* market segmentation : The Softco software company divides the software market into large companies, small companies, home office users, and leisure users. This is its market segmentation.
* market share : Among UK supermarkets, Tesco sells more than any of the other chains. It has the highest market share.
* market leader : Tesco is the market leader among UK supermarkets as it sells more than any of the other chains.

#### C. Competitors and competition

* Companies or products in the same market are competitors or rivals. Competitors compete with each other to sell more, be more successful, etc. The most important companies in a particular market are often referred to as key players.
* Competition describes the activity of trying to sell more and be more successful. When competition is strong, you can say that it is intense, stiff, fierce or tough. 
* If not, it may be described as low-key. The competition refers to all the products, businesses, etc. competing in a particular situation, seen as a group.