---
categories: BIV
---

### 10. Businesspeople and business leaders

#### A. Businesspeople and entrepreneurs

* A -----------, ----------- or ----------- is someone who works in their own business or as a manager in an organization.
  * businessman
  * businesswoman
  * businessperson
* Note: The plural of ----------- is -----------. ----------- and ----------- can also be spelled as two words: business person, business people.
  * plural : 복수
  * businessperson
  * businesspeople
* An ----------- is someone who starts or founds or establishes their own company. Someone who starts a company is its founder. An ----------- may found a series of companies or start-ups. 
  * entrepreneur
* ----------- is used in a positive way to describe the risk-taking people who do this, and their activities. Some ----------- leave the companies they found, perhaps going on to found more companies. Others may stay to develop and grow their businesses.
  * Entrepreneurial
  * entrepreneurs
* Note: **Found** is a regular verb. Past tense and past participle: founded. Establishment can also describe an action (e.g. the establishment of a successful business was his main aim in life).
  * regular verb : 규칙동사
* Some English speakers believe it is not correct to use grow as a transitive verb in this context.

#### B. Leaders and leadership

* A large company mainly owned by one person or family is a -----------. Successful businesspeople, especially heads of large organizations, are business leaders or, in journalistic terms, captains of industry.
  * business empire
  * jornalistic terms : 시사용어
* There is a lot of discussion about whether people like this are born property with leadership skills, or whether such skills can be learned.

#### C. Magnates, moguls and tycoons

* People in charge of big business empires may be referred to, especially by journalists, as magnates, moguls or tycoons. These words often occur in combinations such as these

* Magnate
  * media
  * press
  * shipping
  * oil
* mogul
  * movie
  * media
  * shipping
* tycoon
  * property
  * software