---
categories: BIV
---

### 18. Business philosophies

#### A. Total quality management

* Tom Dryden, of Dryden Vacuum Cleaners, believes in quality: 'The specifications or specs of a product are exact instructions about its design, including its dimensions (size), how it is to be made, the materials to be used, etc. 
  * instructions (n. c.) : the written information that tells you how to do or use something 
  * dimension (n. c.) : a part of a situation or a quality involved in it

* The objective of quality control is conformity to specifications, the idea that the product should be made exactly as it was intended, with zero defects: no faults at all. Things should be done right first time so we don't have to correct mistakes later in a process of reworking. 
  * conformity (n. un.) : behaviour that obeys the accepted rules of society or a group, and is the same as that of most other people **OPP** non-conformity
* We do spot checks every few minutes during production to ensure everything is going well. We have a system of total quality management (TQM), including quality circles: groups of employees who meet regularly to suggest improvements.'
  * spot checks (n. c.) : an examination of a few things or people from a group, to check whether everything is correct or satisfactory

#### B. Continuous improvement

* Ray, at Lightning Technologies: 'We are always making small improvements or enhancements; this is continuous improvement. We refer to it by its Japanese name: kaizen.
  * enhance (verb. tran.) : to improve something 
* 'Silvia Chavez, Aerolineas Latinas: 'We use continuous improvement in our service industry. We look carefully at the overall customer experience. In retailing, they use mystery shoppers, who pretend to be shoppers to check service in shops. We use "mystery travellers" to report on the standard of service before, during and after the flight.'
  * overall (adj) : considering or including everything

#### C. Benchmarking

* Jim, production manager at an electricity power station in the UK: 'We use a system called benchmarking to compare our performance to other power stations. 
* We've recently been to the US to see how the best power stations operate - best practice - and try to copy it. We've managed to halve the number of workers, and increase productivity.'  
  * halve (verb. tran.) : to reduce something by a half

#### D. Business process re-engineering

* Susanna, head of personal banking at an international bank: 'Business process re- engineering, or BPR, applies in service industries as well as in manufacturing. 
* We didn't want to change existing things in small ways. We completely redesigned all our processes in management, administration and customer service. 
* We eliminated three levels of management and installed a completely new computer system. The gains in productivity have been very good.'
  * eliminate (verb. trans.) : to completely get rid of something that is unnecessary or unwanted 