---
categories: BIV
---

### Making things

#### A. Products

* A product can be :
  * something natural.
  * something made to be sold.
  * a service.
* Produce refers to agricultural products such as crops or fruit. For example, you can buy fresh produce at a farmers' market. Something that is made is produced or manufactured.
  * crops (n. c.) : a plant such as wheat, rice, or fruit that is grown by farmers and used as food 
* A country or company that produces something is a producer of it. A company that manufactures something is a maker or manufacturer of manufactured goods.

#### B. Mass production

* 'I'm Steve and I'm head of car production at a manufacturing plant. 'Plant' sounds more modern than factory or works. On the assembly line we mass-produce cars. The plant is highly automated: we use a lot of machinery. These machines are expensive to buy but very cost-effective - we don't have to pay them wages!  We use industrial robots. These robots are part of the CADCAM system of computer-assisted design and manufacturing.
* My name's Luke. I have a little workshop where I produce furniture ordered by individual customers. We don't use machinery: the furniture is hand- made. Producing furniture like this is a craft industry. It's very labour- intensive: it takes a lot of work to produce each piece. Many people dislike the furniture that big companies churn out in large numbers on their production lines, so we have a lot of customers.'
  * workshop : 공방
  * labour- intensive (adj) : an industry or type of work that is labour-intensive needs a lot of workers
  * churn (verb) : if your stomach churns, you feel sick because you are nervous or frightened

#### C. Capacity and output

* Output is the number or type of things that a plant, company, industry or country produces. Productivity is a measure of how much is produced in relation to the number of employees. High output per employee = high productivity.
  *  measure (verb) :  to find the size, length, or amount of something, using standard units such as inches, metres etc
* The maximum amount that a particular plant, company or industry can produce is its capacity. If it is producing this amount, it is working at full capacity. If it is producing more than what is needed, there is over production or:
  * excess capacity
  * overcapacity
  * spare capacity
  * surplus capacity
* These expressions can also be used in service industries. If far too many things are produced, there is a glut of these things. If not enough goods are being produced, there is a shortage.
  * glut (n. c.) : a supply of something, especially a product or crop, that is more than is needed