---
categories: BIV
---

### Organizations 2

#### A. Self-employed people and partnerships

* I'm a freelance graphic designer, a freelancer. That means I work for myself - I'm self-employed. To use the official term, I'm a sole trader. 
  * sole trader : a legal form of company in some countries for someone who has their own business, with no other shareholders
  * Sole owner and sole proprietor are also used both in BrE and AmE. Sole trader is not used in the US
  * Note: You usually describe people such as designers and  journalists as freelancers, and people such as builders and plumbers as self-employed. 
    * builder n. c. : a person or a company that builds or repairs buildings
    * plumber n. c. : someone whose job is to repair water pipes, baths, toilets etc, 배관공
* We have set up our own architecture partnership. There are no shareholders in the organization apart from us, the partners. A lot of professional people like lawyers, accountants and so on, work in partnerships. 
  * set up (phrasal verb), <company/organization etc> : to start a company, organization, committee etc. **SYN** establish

#### B. Limited liability

* I'm the managing director and main shareholder of a small electronics company in Scotland called Advanced Components Ltd. 'Ltd' means limited company. The other shareholders and I have limited liability: we do not have to use our personal property, such as a house or car, to pay the company's debts. 
  * liability n. uc. : legal responsibility for something, especially for paying money that is owed, or for damage or injury
* I'm the chief executive of a British company called Megaco PLC. 'PLC' means public limited company, so anybody can buy and sell shares in Megaco on the stock market.
* I'm CEO of Bigbucks Inc. 'Inc' stands for Incorporated. This shows that we are a corporation, a term used especially in the US for companies with limited liability.

#### C. Mutuals

* Some companies, like certain life insurance companies, are mutuals. When you buy insurance with the company you become a member. Profits are theoretically owned by the members, so there are no shareholders.
* In Britain, another kind of mutual is building societies, which lend money to people who want to buy a house. But a lot of building societies have demutualized: they have become public limited companies with shareholders. This process is demutualization.

#### D. Non-profit organizations

* Organizations with 'social' aims such as helping those who are sick or poor, or encouraging artistic activity, are non-profit organizations (BrE) or not-for-profit organizations (AmE). They are also called charities, and form the voluntary sector, as they rely heavily on volunteers (unpaid workers). They are usually managed by paid professionals, and they put a lot of effort into fund-raising, getting people to donate money to the organization in the form of donations.
  * charity n. c. : an organization that gives money, goods, or help to people who are poor, sick etc 
  * volunteers n. c. : someone who does a job willingly without being paid
  * rely on (phrasal verb) : to trust or depend on someone or something to do what you need or expect them to do 